Welcome back to Movie Recaps. Today I will
show you an adventure, comedy, family film
from 2013, titled Jack the Giant Slayer.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Once upon a time a little boy named Jack lived
with his father. The boy enjoyed reading the tale
of the giants, which his mother used to tell
him before she died. The story is as follows:
A long time ago, the monks found magic beans
which they hoped would grow a pathway to god.
Unfortunately, when they came up the stalk they
found something else standing between heaven and
Earth. The place was Gantua, the home of the
fierce giants. The giants came down to Earth,
stealing and pillaging the human race, but
also acquiring a taste for human flesh.
The same story is quite enjoyed by Isabelle
as well, the little princess. Her mother reads
it to her and asks if she's not afraid from the
giant's leader with two heads? The girls says no,
so the mother continues. The monks had returned
to the dark arts to find a way to rule the giants.
They crafted a crown from their melted hearts.
King Eric enslaved the giants with the crown
and sent them back to Gantua, making it their
prison. He severed the stalk and peace returned
to his land. There are relics that remain from
that time that were buried with the king and the
story became a legend. As Jack's father tucks him
in bed, the boy asks if the giants will return.
He tells him that the king's guardians, born of
noble blood, will cut them down. The father tells
him that the giants aren't real. Isabelle's mother
tells the girl that king Eric was real in a way.
She's of his blood. When the girl says
that she's seen his grave in the catacombs,
her mother realizes that she's been roaming around
the castle. But, she's not upset because she wants
her to know about the world, if she is to become
queen one day and has the power to make the world
a better place. Once, Jack's father leaves his
room the boy continues to read the story, that
says that the giants will return to wage a war
with the Earth and kill the last of Eric's kin.
10 years later, Jack's uncle sends
him off to sell the horse in the city,
telling him not to get distracted. Once in town,
Jack, now fully grown, tries to sell his horse and
cart. He immediately gets distracted by the town
theatre. They retell the story of King Eric and
the giants. Jack sees a beautiful girl in the
audience and she notices him staring at her.
Before the play ends, three men begin to harass
the girl, so Jack decides to step in when they
follow her out. He gets punched in the face, then
pleads with the men to let the girl go. Suddenly,
a royal guardian appears behind him. The men
apologize to the guardian because they don't want
trouble and when they see princess Isabelle climb
on one of the horses, they drop to their knees,
to the bewilderment of Jack. He turns around
and the guardian tells him to kneel as well.
Outside of the theatre he realizes
that someone had stolen his cart.
Meanwhile, Roderick and Wicke talk about
his future marriage with the princess.
They run into a monk and let him pass. Once they
get inside the room where the relics are kept,
Roderick quickly goes to check if they're in
their place. The magic beans have been stolen,
but King Eric's crown remains there. He orders
Wicke to close the gates of the city and find the
monk. The monk realizes that they are searching
for him, when Jack shows up selling his horse.
He offers the boy 10 coppers for the horse and
Jack would gladly agree if the monk had the money
with him. Because of that, the monk offers him
the beans as collateral. Jack isn't impressed,
so he tells him that they are holy relics, which
he could return to the abbey and exchange them for
the money promised to him. The monk tells him
not to lose the beans or get them wet. While
Jack is still considering the offer, the monk has
already taken the horse and is leaving the city.
Before he can escape, Wicke sends his men on
him. They chase him down and grab him. Later,
Isabelle gets back to the castle, apologizing
to Elmont, her guardian, for making his job so
hard. Simultaneously, Jack's uncle is scolding
him for exchanging the horse for the beans.
He tells him that he has to grow up, because he's
18 years old. The king scolds the princess at the
same time about running away form the palace
without the guardians, because she's the future
queen. She asks why he would ask her to marry
someone twice her age and who she doesn't love,
like Roderick. Isabelle tells her father that
she's not a fragile and helpless creature and he
tells her she's like her mother. Jack's uncle is
mad and he flings the beans of the table, saying
he'll have to sell the remaining possessions
of Jack's parents. He begs him no to do that,
but the man doesn't let go. Isabelle begs her
father to let her be free to roam the kingdom,
but he tells her that he doesn't want to lose her
like her mother. Even though she makes her case in
front of the king, he sets his final word that
she will marry Roderick and stay in the palace.
Isabelle leaves disappointed, but, that night she
defies her father again. Simultaneously, Wicke
and Roderick are interrogating the monk. He says
that they should've left the beans where they were
buried, because they were made from dark magic.
The beans can't be controlled. Roderick kills him.
Later, Jack is worried about his uncle being out
in the storm. In the same time, the princess is
lost when she sees the lights on Jack's house and
follows them. As Jack is getting ready to go out
and look for his uncle, the princess knocks on
his door. He invites her inside and they chat,
as the ground below the house fills with water,
getting closer to a magic bean. Jack and Isabelle
talk about books and adventures. He tells her that
he got into a fight in the princess's honor at the
market, both pretending that they don't recognize
each other. Jack asks her what she's running away
from. She says that she's just looking for an
adventure and Jack kneels, making it known that
he's aware of who she is. Isabelle tells him to
stand, then thanks him for defending her honor.
The bean begins the sprout under the house, but
to two of them are still unaware. He gives her
his favorite book about the giants and tells her
that he hopes she'll find what she's looking for.
Suddenly, the house begins to shake
and a giant stem rips the floors open,
as it rises to the sky. Jack is thrown outside
and Isabelle is trapped into the farmhouse.
It gets picked up by the rising beanstalk
and Jack jumps to it so he can help Isabelle.
The house keeps getting elevated higher and
higher, when Jack finally gets back to the
house and tries to come inside. Isabelle opens the
door, nearly pushing him off. He grabs her hand,
but still falls down the beanstalk,
taking her mother's bracelet with him.
Jack manages to arrive safely back down
at the foot of the stalk, but passes out.
The following morning, the king wakes him up
and asks him why he has his daughter's bracelet.
Jack gets recognized by Elmont from the market
and is allowed to explain what happened.
Both him and Roderick will help the guardians find
and rescue Isabelle. Later, the men are making
their way up the stalk. Roderick is clearly up to
something. Jack asks Elmont what he thinks is up
there, but the guardian doesn't believe in giants.
He tells the boy that he shouldn't be doing this
to impress the princess, because even if she
didn't marry Roderick, she could never marry
a commoner like him. Crawe, the other guardian,
helps Jack get to the other side of the stalk,
but the boy unfortunately falls. They save
him and keep climbing the massive beanstalk,
loosing people on the way at the behest of
Roderick and unbeknownst to Elmont. Only 6 of
them remain. The next day, they awake to realize
that they have reached to top of the beanstalk.
Since the princess isn't in Jack's house, they
enter the world of the giants searching for her.
As the guardians begin the pursuit, Roderick stops
Jack and threatens him for the rest of the magic
beans. He gives them the purse and is threatened
not to say a word. Jack keeps one of the beans
and puts it in his locket. Elmont and Crawe find a
clue that Isabelle has left to find her way back.
Crawe and the others follow Isabelle's marks, when
suddenly Jack finds the book that he gave her,
saying to the rest that she must've hidden
there. They see some broken branches and
Jack supposes that something big pulled her out of
her hiding place and that she must be in trouble.
Elmont orders the men to split up in two groups.
Him, Crawe and Jack find some sheep and try
to catch one, when they set off a trap. Elmont
begins to cut them out when he notices something
approaching. Once they are out, they hide from
that which approaches - a giant. It eats a sheep
whole, then catches Crawe's sent and finds him.
The man runs, but the giant gets to him in a few
leaps. As it's getting prepared to eat Crawe,
Elmont runs up to him and stabs him, just to get
knocked out. The giant grabs them both and takes
them away. Jack follows it. Meanwhile, the other
group gets to a waterfall, so the guardian tells
Roderick to sit and rest while he finds another
way around. They trick him and push him off the
cliff. Suddenly, a giant grabs Wicke and eats him.
Another giant appears, but Roderick gets to
the crown in time and manages to save himself.
Jack has followed the giant into one of their
cities. Simultaneously, Isabelle is being kept
prisoner by a giant, who questions her about how
she got there. She won't answer. When it asks her
about others coming for her, she says that she's
alone. But the two headed giant - General Fallon
knows that Isabelle is a descendant from king
Eric. He shows her around to his men, saying that
the humans have returned. Suddenly, the other
giant brings Crawe and Elmont there as well.
The leader of the giants questions the two of them
and when Crawe antagonizes him, it eats him. Jack
follows the commotion in the giant city, but has
to hide from two giants before he gets there. The
general threatens Elmont that he'll eat Isabelle
if he doesn't answer his questions and argues
with another giant over the right to do that, when
Roderick suddenly shows up wearing the crown. All
the giants kneel to him, even the general. Elmont
is happy when he shows up, but Roderick just takes
the throne. To both his and Isabelle's surprise,
Roderick orders the giants to fight for him as
their king and take over the Earth as his army. He
tells them to prepare for battle at dawn. General
Fallon doesn't like that. Meanwhile, Jack finds
the room with all the loot the giants have stolen.
Then takes a look at the city and hears Isabelle
beg for her life as she's being taken away.
Her and Elmont are being prepared to be eaten.
Jack arrives to save them while the giant cook
looks for something. He can't get Isabelle out,
so he goes over to Elmont and gives him a knife.
The giant comes back, almost killing Elmont
with a giant pick, then puts him in the oven.
Before he gets cooked, Jack climbs over to get
him, while he lets himself out of the dough.
Suddenly, the giant pulls Isabelle out of the
cage and gets ready to chop her up, when Jack
takes one of the cooking knives and stabs him with
it. Elmont releases himself and Isabelle hides,
as Jack remains dangling on the giant's back. It
hits itself in the wall, effectively finishing the
job. Elmont is impressed that Jack killed a giant,
then Jack tells them that he knows a way out.
Meanwhile, at the foot of the stalk, the king
asks one of his generals if they should cut the
beanstalk down. The man says that the stalk is
a means to get up, but one to get down as well.
They speculate on what might come down from there.
Back at Gantua, Roderick orders one of the giants
to wait for the rest at the edge. Jack sanitizes
Isabell's wound, while Elmont laments over the
death of his friend. She feels guilty for running
away and causing this to happen. Jack tells her
that on the other hand, if she didn't, Roderick
would have taken over the kingdom with no warning.
He tells her that they need to get her back
so that when she becomes the queen, she could
make the world a better place. Her bleeding stops
and Elmont asks where they should go. They follow
the river to the edge, where they find the giant
sleeping. Jack thinks that they should wake him up
with the help of a beehive. The two men approach
the sleeping giant and place the hive in his mask,
then run back to hide. They wait for a moment,
then the giant wakes, stumbles over himself
and then falls over the cliff. Isabelle and Jack
hug, but Elmont disapproves. As they walk toward
the edge, Elmont tells them that he needs to stay
behind and take care of Roderick. He tells Jack to
bring the princess home and makes him a guardian.
Isabelle says goodbye to him and the two leave.
At the foot of the stalk, the giant falls down.
The king sees him, then orders his general to cut
the beanstalk down for the sake of the kingdom.
The general is reluctant because the princess
still hasn't arrived, so the king takes his sword
and goes over to cut it, asking his daughter for
forgiveness. When he sees the king's resolve,
the general orders his men to cut the stalk.
Simultaneously, Jack and Isabelle climb down the
stalk and see their city at its foot. They kiss,
then wonder what the people down the stalk are
doing. The operation to cut down the beanstalk is
seriously underway. Meanwhile at Gantua, Elmont
waits for Roderick at the edge. He's woken up
by the approaching giant army. Roderick arrives
and goes over to the edge, when suddenly Elmont
attacks him and he drops the rest of the beans.
They fall inside the entrance cave and struggle.
Roderick asks for the giants to help so general
Fallon tells his men to dig him out. Roderick and
Elmont fight and Roderick has the upper hand, when
Elmont manages to grab his sword and wound him.
But, Roderick pushes him almost off the edge
again and Elmont grabs his knife and stabs him.
The giants dig a hole through the stone, but don't
manage to get to Roderick in time before he dies.
What they do manage to do is take the crown.
General Fallon puts it on as a ring and becomes
the king of the giants. Back at the foot of
the stalk, the men have succeeded in cutting
one part of it. When it begins to shake and tear
apart, Isabelle and Jack can feel it higher up.
The sheer mass of the stalk begins to come down on
the men in its foot. Jack tells Isabelle to hang
on. Elmont jumps on the top of the stalk before it
collapses completely and general Fallon watches it
go. Jack and Isabelle ride the stalk and he uses
one of it's stems as a rope to swing away from it.
The rest of the stalk that Elmont is riding, gets
almost to the palace and destroys a part of it,
but not before he can jump off as well. The
king feels horrible because he thinks that he
has lost his daughter. Suddenly, his general
approaches and brings her to him. Isabelle
tells him about Roderick and he says he's sorry.
Jack leaves and when Isabelle asks about him,
the king goes after him. He rewards Jack, saying
that as a father he can't reward him enough.
Isabelle comes out wearing an armor and as they
say goodbye he gives her the book to remember him.
She rides with her father to the palace.
Simultaneously, general Fallon finds the
rest of the magic beans. He throws them
in the water and they instantly sprout.
General Fallon gets his men prepared as the beans
begin to grow on the very edge of their land.
The giants begin to climb and push the stalks
down even before they are fully formed. General
Fallon jumps on as well. On Earth, Jack finds his
horse and sees the giants coming down, then rides
to inform the king. Moments later, the giants
arrive. Jack tells a monk to ring the alarm and as
he approaches the king and Isabelle, telling them
about the giants, they see the giants behind him.
Everyone hurries back toward the city, with the
giants catching up and killing the king's men.
General Fallon goes after the king, but
they are slowed down by the first beanstalk.
Elmont gets the army in the city ready - from the
archers to the hot oil. The giants are right on
Jack's tail, as Elmont waits for them to arrive in
the city to light up the oil. The king enters the
city and he rises the drawbridge before Jack gets
on it. He jumps on, but so does General Fallon.
Elmont pushes him off the bridge and he burns in
the oil. The other giants prepare to get into the
city, but Fallon survives under the water. Elmont
reunites with Jack and Isabelle. He tells the king
that the giants have the crown and they suddenly
throw a bell into the city, then latch onto the
drawbridge with hooks. The king tells Isabelle to
go to his chambers and light a beacon to warn the
other kingdoms. He tells Jack to look after her.
Elmont and the rest manage to hold the drawbridge.
Isabelle leads Jack through a shortcut via the
royal catacombs and they pass king Eric's grave.
They get to the royal chamber, when they hear
something under to floor. General Fallon pushes
through it and they run. The army keeps trying to
hold the giants off, but they just keep decimating
their ranks. They throw enflamed threes into
the city. The humans fire at the giants with
spears and finally make some progress in
the fight, but the giants just fight back
and destroy their weapons. Fallon can smell the
princess, as her and Jack hide in the king's robe.
He finds them and they run away going up a tight
staircase. Fallon breaks through a wall to get
to them and grabs Isabelle, then grabs Jack as
well when he tries to kill him. As the giant
is about to swallow Jack whole, he takes out the
remaining magic bean and throws it in his mouth.
The bean begins to sprout in his stomach and comes
out of him, killing him and destroying the palace.
As pieces of the giant fall around Jack and
Isabelle, his hand with the crown falls next to
Jack. Meanwhile, the rest of the giants pull the
drawbridge back down, so the humans shut the doors
to the city. The men get ready for the arrival
of the giants and wait as they break through.
Suddenly, they see the beanstalk taking apart the
palace and the giants drop their weapons, then
kneel in front of the human army. Jack appears
wearing the crown and Isabelle takes his hand.
Much later, Jack is reading the
ending of the story to his children,
where the giants were made to get back on their
land and the princess wed her farm boy prince.
The kids ask about the crown, worried that the
giants will come back, but he tells them that
it's in a safe place as Isabelle joins them.
Jack tells them the story of the giants again,
as the reconstruction of the crown is seen,
becoming what the Imperial State Crown looks
like today. The crown is seen in present
day, as a guide tells some students about it.
The safe place in which it is held
is in Westminster Abbey in London.